# Multiobjective Optimization for Antibiotic Treatment based on patient compliance parameters

Antibiotics are the medicines that are used to treat and prevent bacterial infections by pre-venting the bacteria from spreading within the body. The use of antibiotics is becoming increasingly ineffective worldwide as the rapid emergence of antimicrobial resistance is mak-ing it difficult to treat common bacterial infections in humans, animals, food, and plants. As the overuse and misuse of antibiotics in humans, agriculture, aquaculture, and livestock is increas-ing, the spread of antimicrobial resistance is considered a global threat causing many deaths worldwide. The inappropriate treatment regimens such as conventional fixed dose regimens are deemed ineffective in our fight against antimicrobial resistance. 

Depending on the type of bacterial infection, antibiotic treatment usually follows a fixed-dose lengthy regimen which is equally spaced in time. Most of the bacterial infections require a multi-day treatment course, where patient non-compliance becomes a huge factor in antimi-crobial resistance when they miss a specified dose or quit taking the medicine when a patient starts feeling better. Combined with patient compliance parameters, our main objective in this research is to find optimised treatment regimens with shorter treatment periods and find the balance between higher host survival rates and smaller doses of antibiotics used. Our focus is to determine how compliance parameters like missing a dose, taking a dose at a different time than prescribed, and quitting the dose affect the host survival rate. We will also use multi-ob-jective optimisation to optimise survival rate while minimising the total antibiotic used.

We have used advanced computational search algorithms such as Genetic Algorithms to pro-duce an optimised solution for antibiotic treatment. We implemented the jMetal framework for multi-objective optimisation such as host survival rate, total antibiotics dosage, and the number of doses according to the changes in patient compliance parameters. The execution of algorithms was done with the university's condor cluster on a machine called euro that does the condor jobs on Linux nodes. The cluster generated consistent results over every run of 50 simulations for each compliance parameter that we varied. The optimised solution consistently produced a higher initial dosage followed by lower dosage at optimal hours. After gathering the results for various values of compliance, we did a statistical analysis on Python and R in-cluding exploratory data analysis (EDA) and multiple Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) tests for each compliance parameter and compared their effects on host death rate and recommended dosage strategy. We also executed the algorithms with multi-objective optimisation which resulted in higher survival rates when we increased the antibiotic dosage.
